Introduction
=============

This is a prototype for an awesome survey REST API that may or may not ever be finished, probably left incomplete for eternity. Who knows.

I developed everything from the ground up, including the dispatcher, fixture loading scripts, routing, as well as the business logic associated with the survey/questions. The only thing I don't take credit for are the classes inside the `Model` namespace, which were generated by Mondator.


Architecture & Scaling
=============

I chose MongoDB because it's schema-less, which is useful when dealing with the strange formats that survey questions can have. (pies, cheese wedges, etc) 

In future iterations, it would be nice to implement a "survey locking" mechanism. While locked, this would let the application aggregate user answer values for particular answers, letting us expose "live survey results" without doing any complicated querying on the answers collection. This, however, is not possible for complicated question types, such as "pies" and "multiple sliders".



Installation
==============

1. Run: `git clone https://github.com/MichelCarroll/QuestionEngine`
2. Run: `php composer.phar install` inside project folder
3. Copy `config/app.dist.yml` to `config/app.yml`, and enter your mongo connection details
4. Run `php loadTestData.php` to load data fixtures into the database
5. Add a virtual host to your local web server, and forward all requests to `bootstrap.php`


Services
=========

#####getFirstQuestion(survey_name)
Returns first question inside the survey, or null if the survey is empty.

#####getNextQuestion(question_name)
Returns next question inside the question's survey, or null if it's the last question.

#####getAllQuestion(survey_name)
Returns an array containing all the questions inside the survey.

#####answerQuestion(question_name, value)
Saves the answer for a question. Returns an error if the value format doesn't follow the business rules (see below for Question Types).


Question Types
==============

#### Boolean
True or false question. Expected values: 0, 1

#### Integer
Requiring a number as an answer. Potentially has a "maximum" and/or "minimum" defined.

#### Multiple
Requiring the value to be among the choices in the question.

#### Pie
Requiring a mapping of choice/values, each value being a ratio of the sum of all values. At least one non-zero value is required.

#### Slider
Defined the same way as the `Integer` type. The user interface may choose to display it differently.
